README.md, before:

## rdrp

> A cross-platform command line tool for sending and receiving files over your local network, inspired by [AirDrop](https://support.apple.com/en-ca/HT204144).

- [Demo](#demo)
- [Design](#design)
- [Installation](#installation--setup)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

### Demo

<a href="https://asciinema.org/a/120148"><img src="./rdrp.gif"></a>

### Design

rdrp uses [Multicast DNS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS) to enable peer-to-peer discovery between clients. This means that rdrp will likely **not** work in most cloud/virtual environments.

When a client first connects, they're registered as a new instance on the `_rdrp._tcp` service. Each sender continuously browses this service for newly connected broadcasters with whom they'll establish a connection and attempt to send their respective file.

This program implements mDNS with [grandcat/zeroconf](https://github.com/grandcat/zeroconf).

Read more about mDNS: [RFC 6762](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6762) and DNS-SD: [RFC 6763](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6763).

### Installation / setup

  - Go should be [installed](https://golang.org/doc/install) and [configured](https://golang.org/doc/install#testing).

  - Install with Go:

    ```sh
    $ go get -v github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp/...
    $ which rdrp
    $GOPATH/bin/rdrp
    ```

  - Or, install directly via source:

    ```sh
    $ git clone https://github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp.git $GOPATH/src/github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp
    $ cd $_ # $GOPATH/src/github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp
    $ make install && make
    $ ./rdrp
    ```

### Usage

  - There's two parties involved in a single transaction: the sender and the receiver.

  - To send a file over your local network, use the `send` command. Provide the file path with the `-file` flag. Every broadcaster will receive a request to transfer the file. This process continues until aborted (Ctrl+C).

    ```sh
    $ rdrp send -help
    Usage of send:
      -file string
          File to transfer
      -name string
          Connection name
      -send-to value
          Comma-separated list of clients
    ```

  - Some basic examples:

    ```sh
    $ rdrp send -file README.md
    ```

    ```sh
    $ tar -cvzf archive.tar.gz /path/to/directory/
    $ rdrp send -file archive.tar.gz -send-to a,bc
    ```

  - To broadcast yourself as a receiver (i.e. someone receiving a file), use the `broadcast` command. You'll be listening for incoming `send` requests. Upon a new connection, you'll be prompted on whether you'd like to accept the file or not, just like AirDrop. The incoming file is copied to stdout.

    ```sh
    $ rdrp broadcast -help
    Usage of broadcast:
      -name string
          Connection name
    ```

  - Some basic examples:

    ```sh
    $ rdrp broadcast # output will be copied to stdout
    ...
    ```

    ```sh
    $ rdrp -name bc broadcast > archive.tar.gz
    ```

  - Note that each role has an **optional** name flag, if not provided, a name is chosen randomly (which is what happened in [the demo above](#demo)).

  - You can also view all connected clients with `list`. Use `-type` to specify the type of clients to list and `-watch` to listen for new connections.

    ```
    $ rdrp list -help
    Usage of list:
      -type string
          Type of client to list ("broadcast", "send", or "all") (default "all")
      -watch
          Watch for new connections (Ctrl+C to exit)
    ```

### Contribute

This project is completely open source, feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp/issues) or [submit a pull request](https://github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp/pulls).

Before submitting a PR, please ensure your changes comply with [Golint](https://github.com/golang/lint), use `make lint` to test this.

The demo GIF was generated by [asciinema](https://asciinema.org/), with [tmux](https://tmux.github.io/) ([recording tmux sessions with asciinema](https://github.com/asciinema/asciinema/wiki/Recording-tmux-session)).

#### TODO

- [x] Add an option for senders to provide a list of names to send the file to (right now, when a file is sent, all connected clients get the prompt).
- [x] Add a `-list` flag to list all currently connected peers (this'll help with the previous TODO I think).
- [ ] Check that the registration name is not already being used.
- [ ] Add an option to send files via stdin. That way it'll be possible to do something like `gzip` a folder and directly pipe that into `rdrp` (instead of doing the two separately).
- [ ] Test. This is only tested on macOS right now, would be great if there was some confirmation that it works on Linux as well (and I guess Windows too).

Commit message:

Add functionality to use stdin as transfer file
When -file is empty, checks if anything is being piped or redirected into
stdin. If stdin is non-empty, transfer that content. Otherwise, throw
errNoFile.

README.md, after:

## rdrp

> A cross-platform command line tool for sending and receiving files over your local network, inspired by [AirDrop](https://support.apple.com/en-ca/HT204144).

- [Demo](#demo)
- [Design](#design)
- [Installation](#installation--setup)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

### Demo

<a href="https://asciinema.org/a/120148"><img src="./rdrp.gif"></a>

### Design

rdrp uses [Multicast DNS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS) to enable peer-to-peer discovery between clients. This means that rdrp will likely **not** work in most cloud/virtual environments.

When a client first connects, they're registered as a new instance on the `_rdrp._tcp` service. Each sender continuously browses this service for newly connected broadcasters with whom they'll establish a connection and attempt to send their respective file.

This program implements mDNS with [grandcat/zeroconf](https://github.com/grandcat/zeroconf).

Read more about mDNS: [RFC 6762](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6762) and DNS-SD: [RFC 6763](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6763).

### Installation / setup

  - Go should be [installed](https://golang.org/doc/install) and [configured](https://golang.org/doc/install#testing).

  - Install with Go:

    ```sh
    $ go get -v github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp/...
    $ which rdrp
    $GOPATH/bin/rdrp
    ```

  - Or, install directly via source:

    ```sh
    $ git clone https://github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp.git $GOPATH/src/github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp
    $ cd $_ # $GOPATH/src/github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp
    $ make install && make
    $ ./rdrp
    ```

### Usage

  - There's two parties involved in a single transaction: the sender and the receiver.

  - To send a file over your local network, use the `send` command. Provide the file path with the `-file` flag OR pass the file's contents via stdin. Every broadcaster will receive a request to transfer the file. This process continues until aborted (Ctrl+C).

    ```sh
    $ rdrp send -help
    Usage of send:
      -file string
          File to transfer
      -name string
          Connection name
      -send-to value
          Comma-separated list of client names
    ```

  - Some basic examples:

    ```sh
    $ rdrp send -file README.md
    ```

    ```sh
    $ ./rdrp send -name sender < README.md
    ```

    ```sh
    $ tar -cvzf archive.tar.gz /path/to/directory/
    $ rdrp send -file archive.tar.gz -send-to a
    ```

    ```sh
    $ echo "hello" | ./rdrp send -send-to b,c
    ```

  - To broadcast yourself as a receiver (i.e. someone receiving a file), use the `broadcast` command. You'll be listening for incoming `send` requests. Upon a new connection, you'll be prompted on whether you'd like to accept the file or not, just like AirDrop. The incoming file is copied to stdout.

    ```sh
    $ rdrp broadcast -help
    Usage of broadcast:
      -name string
          Connection name
    ```

  - Some basic examples:

    ```sh
    $ rdrp broadcast # output is copied to stdout
    ...
    ```

    ```sh
    $ rdrp -name b broadcast > archive.tar.gz
    ```

  - Note that each role has an **optional** name flag, if not provided, a name is chosen randomly (which is what happened in [the demo above](#demo)).

  - You can also view all connected clients with `list`. Use `-type` to specify the type of clients to list and `-watch` to listen for new connections.

    ```
    $ rdrp list -help
    Usage of list:
      -type string
          Type of client ("broadcast", "send", or "all") (default "all")
      -watch
          Listen for new connections (use Ctrl+C to exit)
    ```

### Contribute

This project is completely open source, feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp/issues) or [submit a pull request](https://github.com/kshvmdn/rdrp/pulls).

Before submitting a PR, please ensure your changes comply with [Golint](https://github.com/golang/lint), use `make lint` to test this.

The demo GIF was generated by [asciinema](https://asciinema.org/), with [tmux](https://tmux.github.io/) ([recording tmux sessions with asciinema](https://github.com/asciinema/asciinema/wiki/Recording-tmux-session)).

#### TODO

- [x] Add an option for senders to provide a list of names to send the file to (right now, when a file is sent, all connected clients get the prompt).
- [x] Add a `-list` flag to list all currently connected peers (this'll help with the previous TODO I think).
- [ ] Check that the registration name is not already being used.
- [x] Add an option to send files via stdin.
- [ ] Test. This is only tested on macOS right now, would be great if there was some confirmation that it works on Linux as well (and I guess Windows too).
